🔹 1. Aggregation – "Has-a" (Weak Association)
Definition:
Aggregation is a form of association that represents a "has-a" relationship between two classes, where the child (contained object) can exist independently of the parent.

Key Points:

It is a loose coupling between two classes.

It allows code reusability.

If the container object is destroyed, the contained object can still exist.

Example: A University has-a Professor. Even if the University is closed, Professors can exist.

Code Example:

java
Copy
Edit
class Professor {
    String name;
    Professor(String name) { this.name = name; }
}

class University {
    String name;
    Professor professor;  // Aggregation

    University(String name, Professor professor) {
        this.name = name;
        this.professor = professor;
    }
}
UML Notation: Open diamond (◊)

🔹 2. Composition – "Has-a" (Strong Association)
Definition:
Composition is a stricter form of aggregation where the contained object cannot exist without the container. It implies ownership, meaning one object is completely dependent on the other.

Key Points:

It is a strong coupling between classes.

The lifecycle of the contained object depends on the container.

If the container is destroyed, the contained object is also destroyed.

Example: A House has-a Room. If the House is destroyed, the Room doesn’t exist.

Code Example:

java
Copy
Edit
class Room {
    String type;
    Room(String type) { this.type = type; }
}

class House {
    private Room room;  // Composition

    House() {
        this.room = new Room("Bedroom"); // Room created inside House
    }
}
UML Notation: Filled diamond (◆)

🔸 3. Key Differences: Aggregation vs Composition
Feature	Aggregation	Composition
Relationship Type	Has-a (weak)	Has-a (strong)
Dependency	Independent	Dependent
Object Lifetime	Child object lives independently	Child object dies with parent
Coupling	Loose	Tight
UML Symbol	Open Diamond (◊)	Filled Diamond (◆)
Example	Department has Teachers	House has Rooms

🔸 4. Real-world Analogies
Scenario	Aggregation	Composition
Library System	Library has Books (books can exist elsewhere)	Library Catalog Entry (can't exist without a book)
Car	Car has Driver (driver exists independently)	Car has Engine (engine belongs only to car)

🔸 5. When to Use What?
Use Aggregation When:	Use Composition When:
Objects can exist independently	Objects are part of a whole
You want reusability and flexibility	You want exclusive ownership
Lifetime of part is not bound to whole	Lifetime of part is bound to whole

🔸 6. Common Interview Questions
Q: What is the difference between Aggregation and Composition?
A: Aggregation is a weak association where the part can exist independently of the whole. Composition is a strong association where the part cannot exist without the whole.

Q: Can you give real-world examples of both?
A: Aggregation → Student and College
Composition → Heart and Human

Q: Which one promotes more reusability?
A: Aggregation promotes more reusability as objects are independent.